Introduce Asset Metadata Service (#3310)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/asset-store/docs/03-04-asset-metadata-service.md

---
title: Asset Metadata Service
type: Details
---

> The Asset Metadata Service is an HTTP server that exposes files metadata extraction functionality. It contains a simple HTTP endpoint which accepts `multipart/form-data` forms. The service extracts front matter YAML metadata from text files in arbitrary extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Asset Metadata Service is an HTTP server that exposes file metadata extraction functionality. It contains a simple HTTP endpoint which accepts `multipart/form-data` forms. The service extracts front matter YAML metadata from text files of all extensions. 
```

> The main purpose of the service is to provide metadata extraction for Asset Store. To use it, define `metadataWebhookService` in Asset and ClusterAsset custom resources.

Reviewer 2: Please provide exact information how such webhook would look like

Author: I haven't written about it intentionally, because we don't know yet the final form. I guess it should be updated in task, where we add the functionality to Asset and ClusterAsset controllers.

## Front matter metadata

> Front matter YAML metadata are YAML properties written at the beginning of a file, written between `---` lines. The following snippet represents an exemplary Markdown file with metadata specified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Front matter YAML metadata are YAML properties written at the beginning of a file, between `---` lines. The following snippet represents an exemplary Markdown file with metadata specified:
```

```markdown

---
title: Example document title
description: Description of the page
order: 3
array:
 - foo
 - bar
---

> # Lorem ipsum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Lorem ipsum
```

Reviewer: In our docs we rather start with `##` headings as the title of the doc already acts as the main heading.

Dolores sit amet

```

> ## Use the service outside the Kyma cluster

Reviewer 2: awesome section, we just need proper intro in the overview that says that service purpose is to expose functionality only inside the cluster to the Asset Store controller

You can expose the service for development purposes. To use the Asset Metadata Service on a local machine, run the following command:

```bash
kubectl port-forward deployment/assetstore-asset-metadata-service 3000:3000 -n kyma-system
```

You can access the service on port `3000`.

### Metadata files

> To extract metadata from files, send the multipart form **POST** request to the `/v1/extract` endpoint. As a field name, specify relative or absolute path to the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To extract metadata from files, send the multipart form **POST** request to the `/v1/extract` endpoint. Specify the relative or absolute path to the file as a field name.
```
